## Final Exam (Part 1 - Questions)

1. What is the result of the following operation 9 % 4? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    - [ ] 2.25
    - [ ] 2
    - [ ] 2.0
    - [x] 1

2. What is the value of variable b after the execution of the following statements? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    b = 5
    a = 10
    b = a
    ```

    - [x] 10
    - [ ] 5
    - [ ] (5, 10)
    - [ ] 15

3. The result of which of the following mathematical operations has the data type integer? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 2 correct answers to this question.

    - [ ] 2.0 + 3
    - [ ] 9 ** 0.5
    - [x] 2 // 3
    - [ ] 2 / 3
    - [x] 2 % 3

4. What is the result of the following statement? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    print("12" + "34")
    ```

    - [ ] 12 34
    - [ ] "12", "34"
    - [x] 1234
    - [ ] 46

5. What is the value of a after the following statements have been executed? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    a = '123'
    if a > "a":
        a += "4"
    else:
        a += "0"
    print(a)
    ```

    - [ ] "1234"
    - [x] "1230"
    - [ ] "127"
    - [ ] "123"

6. According to the following code, what is the drink? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    age = 18
    if age > 10:
        drink = "Cola"
    elif age > 16:
        drink = "Beer"
    elif age > 18":
        drink = "Whiskey"
    else:
        drink = "Milk"    
    ```

    - [ ] Whiskey
    - [ ] Milk
    - [ ] Beer
    - [x] Cola

7. Which of the following numbers assigned to the variable a makes the following expression True? **(2.0 / 2.0)**

    ```py
    a > 10 and  not(a > 20) and a % 2 == 0 and a % 3 != 0
    ```

    > Note: There are 2 correct answers to this question.

    - [ ] 17
    - [ ] 18
    - [x] 14
    - [x] 16
    - [ ] 15

8. Which of the following statements about lists are correct? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 3 correct answers to this question.

    - [x] Lists can contain elements of all data types. That means there can be lists of integers or list of strings.
    - [x] Lists can be multiplied with integers. The result is again a list.
    - [ ] All elements within a list must have the same data type.
    - [x] The keyword in is used to check if a given element is part of a list.
    - [ ] The elements of a list are separated by semicolons ;.

9. What is the content of variable list1 after the following statement has been executed? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    list1 = [1, 3, 5] + [2, 4, 6]
    ```

    - [x] [1, 3, 5, 2, 4, 6]
    - [ ] [ [1, 3, 5], [2, 4, 6] ]
    - [ ] [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
    - [ ] [3, 7, 11]

10. What is the value of variable list1 after the following statements have been executed? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    list1 = [1, 1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 3]
    list1.remove(2)
    ```

    - [ ] [1, 1, 1, 2, 3]
    - [ ] [1, 1, 3]
    - [x] [1, 1, 1, 2, 2, 3]
    - [ ] [1, 1, 2, 2, 2, 3]

11. What is the value of x after the following statements have been executed? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    list1 = [1, 4, 7, 9]
    for i in list1:
        if i % 2 == 0:
            x = i
    ```

    - [ ] 9
    - [ ] 1
    - [x] 4
    - [ ] 7

12. Which sequence is generated by the following range? range(1, 9, 2) **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    - [ ] 2, 4, 6, 8
    - [ ] 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15
    - [ ] 1, 3, 5, 7, 9
    - [x] 1, 3, 5, 7

13. What is the value of variable list2 after the following statements have been executed? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    list1 = list(range(5))
    list2 = [x for x in list1 if x % 2 == 0]
    list2 = list2[::-1]
    ```

    - [x] [4, 2, 0]
    - [ ] [0, 2, 4]
    - [ ] [3, 1]
    - [ ] [6, 4, 2, 0]

14. What is the value of variable a after the following statements have been executed? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    student = ("Potter", "Harry", "Gryffindor", "Hogwarts", (1980, "July", 31))
    a = student[-1][0]
    ```

    - [ ] (1980, "July", 31)
    - [ ] Error
    - [ ] Potter
    - [x] 1980

15. What is the effect of the following statements? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    tel = {"Peter": 123, "Paul": 456, "Mary": 789}
    tel["Peter"] = 234
    ```

    - [ ] As the key is already available, this code runs into an error.
    - [ ] The key-value pair "Peter" : 234 is added to the dictionary.
    - [x] The key-value pair "Peter" : 123 is replaced by "Peter" : 234
    - [ ] As the key is already available, the dictionary is unchanged.

16. What is the result of the following statements? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    studs = {
        123: "Harry",
        234: "Hermoine",
        345: "Ron"
    }
    a = studs[1]
    ```

    - [ ] Variable a contains the value "Hermione"
    - [ ] Variable a contains the value "Harry"
    - [ ] Index Error
    - [x] Key Error

17. Which of the following statements about the while loop are correct? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 3 correct answers to this question.

    - [x] while loops can end up in infinite loops.
    - [ ] while loops should be preferred over for loops.
    - [x] If the iteration is to be done over a sequence, for loops are preferred. If it is not clear how many iterations are required, then a while loop is (often) the better choice.
    - [ ] while loops execute the while block (that is, the conditional statements belonging to the loop) at least once.
    - [x] The while block (that is, the conditional statements belonging to the loop) must contain at least one statement.

18. What is the value of variable a after the following code has been executed? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    a = 0
    i = 1
    while i < 10:
        i += 1
        a += i
    ```

    - [ ] 65
    - [x] 54
    - [ ] 66
    - [ ] 55

19. Which of the following statements about the modes used to open a file are correct? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 3 correct answers to this question.

    - [x] In mode "r", the file must exist. If an attempt is made to access a file that is not available, the FileNotFoundError is triggered.
    - [x] In mode "r+", it is possible to read data from a file, but also to write data to the file.
    - [x] If data is written to a file that is opened in mode "r", an error is triggered.
    - [ ] A file opened in mode "r+" has first to be read. In a second step, data can be written to the file. A file opened in mode "w+" must first have data written to the file before data can be read.
    - [ ] In mode "w+", an existing file will be opened.

20. Which of the following statements about reading from a file are correct? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 3 correct answers to this question.

    - [x] It is possible to read the complete file into a list in one go, without a for loop, using the method .readlines()
    - [x] Files are organized sequentially, therefore a for loop can be used to iterate over the lines of a file.
    - [x] As files are organized sequentially, they can easily be converted into a list, as a list is a sequence type as well.
    - [ ] If a file is read with .readlines(), it is not necessary to close it at the end of the program.
    - [ ] If a file is read from the beginning to the end, the read cursor is automatically positioned at the beginning of the file again.

21. Which of the following statements about f-strings are correct? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 3 correct answers to this question.

    - [x] It is possible to add additional information into the braces, which supports the alignment of the output.
    - [x] To indicate that a string should be treated as an f-string, an "f" simply has to be placed before the string.
    - [x] When using an f-string, curly braces { } can be used. Variables or function calls can be placed within these braces.
    - [ ] Using f-strings, the programmer has the opportunity to specify the layout. For example, the output could be in different colors, or bold, or italic.
    - [ ] f-strings have been available in Python since version 3.0.

22. What is the result of the following statement? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    "Yesterday, Let it be, Help, Something".split()
    ```

    - [x] ['Yesterday,', 'Let', 'it', 'be,', 'Help,', 'Something']
    - [ ] "Yesterday, Let it be, Help, Something"
    - [ ] "Yesterday", " Let it be", " Help", " Something"
    - [ ] ['Yesterday', 'Let it be', 'Help', 'Something']

23. Which of the following are built-in-functions in Python? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 2 correct answers to this question.

    - [ ] .strip()
    - [ ] .isdecimal()
    - [x] int()
    - [ ] for
    - [x] print()

24. Which of the following statements about the syntax of functions in Python are correct? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 2 correct answers to this question.

    - [x] The definition of a function always starts with the keyword def.Correct!
    - [x] Functions can have none, one or more input parameters.Correct!
    - [ ] A function must have a return value.
    - [ ] The function body can consist of zero, one, or many statements.
    - [ ] The docstring is a mandatory part of the function.

25. What is the return value of the following function? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    def f1():
        return 7
        return 8
        return 9
    print(f1())
    ```

    - [ ] None
    - [ ] Error
    - [ ] 9
    - [x] 7

26. What is the output of the following program? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    def f5():
        return 3
        print(4)
    
    print(f5() + f5())
    ```


    - [ ] 6
          4
          4

    - [ ] 4
          4
          6

    - [x] 6

    - [ ] 6
          8


27. What is the outcome of the following program? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    def f1(x = 2, y = 3):
        return x * y
    print(f1(), f1(3, 4), f1(8), f1(y = 5))
    ```


    - [ ] 6 12 24 40
    - [ ] 6 6 24 10
    - [x] 6 12 24 10
    - [ ] 6 12 16 10

28. What is the outcome of the following program? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    def f3(x):
        x += 10
        print(x)
    
    x = 3
    f3(x)
    print(x + 1)
    ```


    - [ ] 13
          3

    - [ ] 14
          14

    - [ ] 13
          14

    - [x] 13
          4

29. What is the output of the following program? **(1.0 / 1.0)**

    ```py
    def f1(i):
        return i ** 2
    
    def f2(j):
        return (f1(j + 1))

    print(f2(3))
    ```

    - [ ] 8
    - [ ] 25
    - [ ] 9
    - [x] 16

30. Which of the following statements about methods and functions are correct? **(2.0 / 2.0)**
    > Note: There are 3 correct answers to this question.

    - [ ] Methods can be used together with the corresponding object or without the object.
    - [ ] Methods and functions are synonyms. Their meaning is exactly the same.
    - [x] Methods are related to object-oriented programming; functions are related to procedural programming.
    - [x] Methods are invoked by calling objectname.methodname. Important: The method must be defined for the corresponding object.
    - [x] Methods can have input parameters and return values.